1) WHAT IS DEVELOPMENT
-How WEBSITES WORK
-FRONT AND BACK END 
-CODE EDITOR

2) BASIC FRONT- END
-HTML
-CSS
-JAVASCRIPT

3) TOOLS
-PACKAGE MANAGERS
-BUILD TOOLS
-VERSION CONTROL

4a DETAILED FRONT-END
-SASS
-RESPONSIVE DESIGN
-JAVA SCRIPT FRAMEWORKS

4b BASIC BACK-END (SERVER SIDE)
-SERVER
-SERVER PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
-DATABASE

SCRIPT		
WEB DEV
Web: It refers to websites, web pages or anything that works over the internet.
Development: It refers to building and improving the application from scratch.

-all websites at  

the most basic are just a bunch of files that are 
stored on a computer called a server this server 

-

is connected to the Internet you can then load 
that website through a web browser on your computer or on your mobile phone it is also called the client 

-in this  

situation so every time you're on the Internet 
you the client are loading/requesting data from the server  

as well as the server submitting data back to the client this 
back and forth between the client and the server  

is the basis of the internet

WEB DEVELOPER
-behind this web development we will know who are the persons who build and what are their roles.

-Now, Web developer roles fall into 3 categories. 
Front end Web developer
Back End Web Developer	

front end means that you're dealing  

mainly with the client-side.
it's called  front 
end because it's what you can see in the browser

on the other hand back end web developer is the part of the website 
that we can't really see but it handles a lot of  

the logic and functionality that is necessary for 
everything to work.
and Full-stack developers has a broad range of skills and knowledge, including both front-end and back-end development.

It is necessary to know your role and your expertise. It will help the team to make the work fast and organized especially when working on a big projects.

SOURCE CODE EDITOR
when you build a website the  

most essential tool that we need to use is a source code editor
the most 
popular code editor is vs code it's fast free easy to use and you can  

customize it with themes and extensions. other code editors are sublime text Atom and vim 


now that we've covered some of the 
broader concepts of what web development is let's  

get more into the details starting with the 
front end 
FRONT END DEV
the front end of a website is made up  

of three types of files HTML CSS and JavaScript 
these files are what is loaded in the browser on  

a client-side


HTML
HTML contains all the  

content on the page and it uses tags to denote 
different types of content for example you can use  

tags to create headline titles paragraphs bulleted 
lists images and so on.

CSS
CSS or cascading style sheets lets you style that 
HTML content so it looks nice and fancy you can  

add colors custom fonts and lay out the elements 
of your website.

JAVASCRIPT
javascript  

is a programming language that was designed to 
run in the browser. You can make  

your website respond to different inputs from the 
user or other sources for example yung animations and yung back to top button nakapag we click it, it will go back to the top of the page.

 

as we mentioned HTML CSS and JavaScript are the 
basic building blocks of front-end web development  

in addition to them there are a frameworks for CSS and JS that will help us to develop quicker from scratch.

Sass (Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets) is an extension of CSS. Style sheet languages control where and how text appears on a webpage, from frame size and color to menu positions. SASS will help your code to be organized and less headache.

Responsible Design ensures that your styles will 
look good and compatible on all devices such as desktops tablets and  

mobile phones.

JS FRAMEWORKS

there are 3 frameworks React, angular and Vue 

React is the most popular frame work, it is created by facebook
Angluar is the first big framework an open-source front-end framework that is mainly used to develop single-page web applications and it is created by google
VueJS is used to design the user interface layer

BACK END

the backend web development or server side of web development is  

made up of three main components the server 
a server-side programming language and the  

database 

Servers
Centralized because website files, back end code and all data are stored all together on a server.

While the decentralized type uses third party services like google cloud, microsoft azure, amazon web services.

Server side Programming language
on the server you need to use  

a programming language to write the functions 
and logic for your website the server then  

compiles your code and conveys the result back 
to the client.

DAtabase
 some 
examples of how data is utilized on websites  

are if you have a contact form on your website 
you could build the form so that every time  

someone submits the form their data is saved on 
to your database you can also store user logins  

on the database and write logic in the server-side 
language to handle checking and authenticating the  

logins

